# FlyingByHand

The task was to work in groups to create a game or experience that featured leap motion controls for a flying object. The project was required to include hand tracking of both position and rotation, as well as gesture recognition of pinching and grabbing. The direction we chose was to create a simple coin collecting game that would incorporate those features. To ensure the game was as intuitive as possible, we kept as natural of a mapping for position as possible, mapping the position of the player to the placement of the hand in a horizontal plane. Our design for the style of the game came from having some Carleton pride and deciding our player character would be a raven. Due to the constraints of the assignment requiring both pinch and grab gestures, we figured for two different types of collectables in the game. As a raven, we decided those two collectables should be shiny things (coins) and food. The choice of how to interact was based on the standard actions used for those objects. A person would normally pinch to pick up a coin, but would grab to pick up a hot dog or a hamburger. We used scaling of the bird to represent swooping down to grab food, as the 2D view lacks perspective. 

We had four challenges that we faced during development. One challenge held was with the scope of the project. Instead of implementing bare bone features, we challenged ourselves to manage a full game prototype. The scope made this difficult to complete in the timeframe caused by our other course work. Another challenge faced was through the team based work on this project, as coding simultaneously can be awkward. There could be miscommunication or lack of communication that would draw problems with the game. Differences in design choices or coding methodologies could lead to issues later on. The next challenge faced was how to scale text on the screen. The last issue which went unsolved was the poor framerate. We are unsure of the cause of the framerate chugging as it is.

We solved the first challenge through re-using code from the 2nd year programming course and Design Studio 1 and repurposing it for this project. This dramatically sped up the project development. We also scrapped some features as time was running out to avoid issues and ensure we did not deliver late. As for the issue of programming as a team, we solved this by using GitHub to have some source control managing our work. That way through branching we could safely work on our own code without breaking everything else. We also communicated heavily on facebook to organize ourselves to avoid any differences in direction or confusion. For solving the text issue, we downloaded a font online and placed it in the data folder. From there, we drew the text as a shape using oftypefont.
